# Capstone_Group12
##Week 1
 ## Ability of Soccer players – Who is the best for the buck

  Soccer is the biggest sport in the world. Millions across the world spend time and money in the pursuit of it, whether it be watching it in coffee shops, playing recreationally at their local soccer club, or placing bets in the fantasy leagues. The big question that many larger soccer clubs often ask themselves, knowingly or not, is who best to let go, and who best to keep. This question while never easy, has been made easier by the efforts of our team. 

## Why this specific topic

  We understand at the end of the day, a team is only as good as its whole, and if a player is taking resources from the team that would be better be used elsewhere, then the whole team suffers. So, this brough us to the big question, does a player’s cost correlate to their performance. This is the main question that we will be asking, and using FIFA data, we will look at the cost of the player and compare their overall attributes. This is what we will look at in this analysis and create a machine learning model to judge whether or the pay really does correlate to performance, and if not, we can then present to the client recommendation on how best to optimize the performance of the team by adding or removing certain players.

  This is of interest for many parties, key of those as previously mentioned, are these large football clubs. Expense can be easily upwards of 200k a year for a single player, and these expenses just like another business expense must be mitigated whenever possible. This is where our program will come it. With our dataset of FIFA players, we will target our variables of interest and create a data-frame out of them. This will then be place on a server, then from their fed into our machine learning algorithm who will parse through the data and generate expected values and compare them to real values. Our null hypothesis would be that there is no correlation between earnings and performance on the field. Our alternative hypothesis would be that there is a correlation, and by using figures we can determine whether or not that correlation is positive or negative. 

 ## Methods of communication and Cooperation 

One of the key requirements in any successful project is a team which communicates and cooperates effectively. Large tasks such as this require everyone to work together to make sure that the client receives the desired outcome on time and without delays. We have put a lot of thought into how during the span of this project we will be communicating and sharing our progress on our respective parts of the project, to this end we created a Discord server. This is where the bulk of our communications takes places as discord is a platform which allows for file sharing, video or voice calling, chat logs and chat history to be saved. This allows us to rapid share files to the whole group and actively talk while working on our tasks. Another method we are using to keep up communication between the team is daily meetings to update us and discuss openly any concerns we face individually or collectively. For example, if one of us finds a specific aspect of the project challenging or cannot complete a task on time, our daily meetings will allow us to redistribute tasks and solve our issues so that we can collectively move forward. We feel that using this method would allow us to “square the circle” between Agile and Waterfall method. In addition, we plan to communicate our work process to the client by providing a log of the discoveries made and plan changes to our project. This will ensure transparency with all parties and will be available in a section of the README. This allows interested parties to keep up with advancements of the project as well as the thoughts of the team.

## In Closing

We know that with a well laid plan, we can achieve the desired goal on time, and get the answers to the stack holders. Putting together machine learning, thoughtful insights, story driven data, and a well-organized team, we know that we will be able to deliver on our goal, of finding what indicators to look for, to find the true monetary value of a player.

##Week 2 

## Data Exploration

The nature of the data makes it trying at times to properly conceptualize what you are looking at. The task of creating something out of numbers and terms is a process that requires a great deal of thought and consideration. During the proletary process of cleaning and parsing the data, we started to play with it, creating small charts and grouping data to see any possible correlation, or see how the data related to itself in a more visual manner. From this process we grew in our understanding of the data and could really see the story that it was presenting to us. From the onset, our goal remained the same, to determine the value of a soccer player, and from our exploration we started to see specific trends present themselves to us. The first was the correlation between ‘age’ and ‘value’, showing a characteristic positive correlation. Others as well were of great interest to us, from the cleaning process we started to group players positions together to get a better picture of the ‘value’ of specific positions, and to compare them to each other to see what the trends between position and value of the player were, were some positions seen as more valuable or were some seen as less.
From this trend in our exploration emerged the thought of the clubs themselves. Were some teams, due to coming from a nation who may not be able to afford to pay their plays as much as a country like France or Spain. This would not neccesarily reflect that the players of that team are of low value rather that they were being paid under the potential market value. This would be an area of interest for our stake holders as if we can find players who over preform for their value, we can give them the appropriate suggestions so that they can more so optimize their team structure.
Data ETL

From the process of data exploration, we as well came upon some challenges with the initial data set. A lot of missing values, duplicate values as well as values that were unnecessary for our current needs. As previously stated, position on the field was a feature what was in interest to us, however we had the issue of people holding several positions at once. This was an issue when we attempted to group them together as there were a multitude of combinations and variations that, while important on the micro level, when attempted to derive the value of a player based on position made in near to impossible. Thus, to over come this challenge we divided the positions into 4 broader, more manageable categories of, “Forward(FW)”, “Mid-Field (MF)”, “Down-Field (DF)” and “Goal-Keeper(GK)”. This will allow us to more closely look at trends in these broader positions as well as compare them with a larger sample, making our findings more meaningful. Furthermore, we also have been using the player ID as a index, allowing us to easily merge and track the transformed or altered values to the originals. This means if later on if we find for example Forwards are of more value, we can trace back our steps and find what specific positions in the broader Forward category are of higher value.
Another issue we had to resolve in the data is the player value itself. Due to some outliers, player value was from the tens of thousands to the tens of millions. This discrepancy reeded its head as we attempted to make for informative graphs of the data. The process of fixing this was to take our “euro value” columns and simply divide all the values by 100,000. This would allow us to generate more digestible graphs, as well made prepping the data for our Machine Learning algorithms.

## Machine Learning

From here, with a better handle on the structure of our data, we pushed forward with another key aspect of the project, and that is creating a Machine Learning algorithm that would allow us to present insightful and actionable advice for our stake holders. After much effort and tweaking we have successful come of with several models that will allow us to create some powerful projections using the presented information. The first we knew we wanted was a supervised Machine Learning model that created a linear regression. The purpose of this was to find a positive correlation between a chosen value and the players value. The reason for this is that if we can find what is positively correlated with their value, we can then present that to stake holders to show them what to look out for in a player. Furthermore, slack holders when scouting for players can simply feed into the program or look at past test and find what is a key sign that a player is more likely than not to be of value. It can also inform them on already existing players and would allow them to judge if they are over or under their market value as judged by the algorithm. 
Another Machine Learning model is our clustered data. From a simple attempt to see if it would generate some interesting findings, this model has come back with some very promising features. After some attempts, it came back with four very well-defined clusters of data points. While still in the early stages of analysis we are eager to see what we can learn from this to present to the stack holders.
While our current models are not complete, they are all showing promising results. We know after some more alterations and tweaking we will be able to come backing with some grasping insights into the data, as well as actionable outlooks

## Week Two in Closing
 
We have all made steady and consistent progress on our portions of the project. Already at this stage we have uncovered many interesting features we are eager to present as we polish them into something that is clearer. As work marches on we have all contributed much time and effort into making sure that all the stake holders will be satisfied in the results, as we are confident that our final product will deliver in what our design goals outlined. 

